at the core of every computer are
devices that actually perform the
computations in most modern computers we
either use n Mo's and P Mo's transistors
as the base of most of our operations
and in this lecture we'll be focusing on
how we use these to gate our transistors
to create logic gates now this is the N
Mo's transistor itself inside this
circle and we have some dimensions of
how we use it so we connect this lower
terminal terminal 2 to ground it's
sufficient just so you know that this is
the convention and you can explore why
in future courses and then we have a
gate which is our inputs and that's how
we control the transistor from our
perspective and that'll be a 0 or a 1
and then this terminal 1 connects to
other gates or the output of our logic
gate and then we've got our P Mo's
transistor over here which behaves in a
opposite fashion we have our our
transistor here and notice this little
symbol that tells us this is the p MOS
transistor and we connect terminal 1
here to this high voltage VDD which is
usually like about 1 volt but that's
going to be very based on the technology
and then we have our input gate which
allows us to control this transistor and
then terminal 2 connects out to other
circuits or other logic gates and so how
do we actually make these work and what
these actually do and so basically a
transistor is a electrically controlled
switch if we put a 1 in or a high
voltage the end loss becomes a closed
circuit whereas the p MOS becomes an
open circuit and if we were to switch of
let's expose the second longer so when
this is closed or shorted there's a
direct path from ground up to here so
basically our output terminal has a zero
volt output
whereas this guy since there's a an
open-circuit there's no current or
anything going through this and so this
is just basically a dangling wire
there's nothing there's nothing not
connected to anything however if we
switch our inputs the entire behavior
changes our end loss becomes an open and
our PMO's becomes a short and so now
there's a direct path between our output
and VDD so now this is going to be our
high voltage VDD and we can keep
altering these behaviors being
alternating between zero and once and
because they have opposite functionality
we call them complementary and
complementary Moss or CMOS is how we
talk about NMOS and PMO's as a group and
any other type of logic that has a
similar functionality the amazing thing
is that we can use just a PMO's and NMOS
transistors to create any circuit and so
here we have a not gate and we'll show
you how this works
if we have an input of zero
our p-type is going to become a short
and directly connect the output to VDD
so when our input is zero volts our
outputs going to have VDD volts which is
a logical one on the other hand this
this n-type is going to be open so
there's no connection between our output
and ground for if we input a 1 or VDD
volts we have a direct path between
ground and the output so our output is
going to have zero volts and be a
logical zero and our p-type is going to
become an open so there's no connection
between VDD and the output and so this
is how we build our not gate which has
this symbol
when we build more complicated or
complex digital logic circuits it
becomes important to notice there's
another part of what makes these guys
complementary so down here n MOS
transistors are connected in series
that means the up power output of one is
connected to the terminal of the other
whereas our PMO's up here are connected
in parallel where both of their outputs
are connected together and they're both
connected on their terminals to VDD and
this these differing paths this parallel
path versus series path is really
important that any time you have a PMO's
in parallel you need to have an n MOS in
series if you have a PMO's and series
you have an N Moss in parallel and
that's how we build our logic gates so
that we maintain this complementary
functionality now let's look at what
this circuit actually does
so let's input a is 0 B is 0 so an a is
0 this p MOS is going to be a short and
when B is 0 this p MOS is going to be a
short as well and so both these connect
our output directly to VDD so our output
should be a 1 and down here our a is
connected to our n MOS so that's going
to become and open and B is going to be
connect to this n moss and create an
open so there's no path between ground
and the output so indeed our output is 1
and let's try another input combination
so let's try with 0 1 and when a is 0
we're going to have a short on this p
MOS just like before and with b is 1
this is going to create an open on this
p MOS
a with 0 is going to create an open on
this n MOS and B with the 1 is going to
create a short so here our ground is
still cut off from the output but we do
have a direct path from VDD down to the
output so output is going to be 1 now
let's try the next combination 1 0 this
is going to be exactly like the
for except a little bit flipped so a is
going to result in this being open this
B is going to cause us to be short and
then this a is going to cause this n
Mo's to be shorted and this B with zero
is going to cause us and MAS to be open
so again there's no path between ground
in the output but there will be a path
between VDD and the output so the output
is 1 all right one last combination to
go we got a is 1 B is 1 that means a is
going to be an open on this P Moss B is
going to be an open on this P Moss and
then a is going to result in a short on
this n Moss and B is going to result in
a short on this n Moss so now we have a
path between ground and the output so
our output is 0 and we have no paths
between VDD and the output so that
reinforces that this is a 0 if you
recognize this truth table you should
recognize that this is the NAND function
the not and which has the following
circuit symbol we can now use this NAND
gate that we constructed to create a
NAND gate if we just competin a this
knot afterwards so we've got our NAND
and this is our knot and this would
result in a B is our inputs C has our
outputs for a NAND gate this is one
reason why we tend to use only NAND
gates in our implementation of actual
computers because an and gate is a lot
more complicated well anyways we'll find
out more about that in future lectures
as well so let's look at one last
circuit and I'll just give the punchline
away for this one this is an or gate and
we'll see exactly how this behaves I
want to draw attention back to the
series versus parallel here our p MOS
are in series whereas our n MOS down on
the bottom here are in parallel because
they share that common point over here
and so that should hopefully reinforce
the idea that we always do things
complementarily
PMO's and NMOS so let's look at the
inputs when Z a is 0 B is 0 a creates a
short on the PMO's B creates a short on
this PMO's and then the a comes around
here and creates an open on the N Moss
and B creates an open on this end Moss
so we have a direct connection between
VDD and the output and no path between
ground and the output so output is 1
let's try the next simple combination
with 0 1 0 creates a short here and an
open here so there's no path between VDD
and the output and then we've got 0 over
here so this guy's becomes an open but
to be being one here casein up short for
this n Moss so we have a path directly
from ground to the output so that
creates a 0 output next input
combination 1 0 B is 1 so we have a open
here and a short on this PMO's because
of the B and then this guy is going to
be open and this guy will be shorted so
now we have a different path but we
still have a path nonetheless from
ground to the output so our output be 0
and then we put both these as 1 both of
our p mosses will be open and both of
our n mosses will be shorted so we have
two paths from ground to the output so C
will be 0 and our output will be 0 and
this again creates our nor gate which
has the circuit symbol nor and we can
combine nor with not to create or and
just like our NAND art we generally will
prefer to use nor gates exclusively in
our designs rather than using and ORS
and nots